you write all this amazing content and
after putting in months and months of
hard work you start getting rankings but
then you fast forward a year a year
later what happens your traffic starts
going down
hey everyone i'm neil patel and today
i'm going to teach you how to grow your
seo traffic by updating your old content
now before we get started make sure you
subscribe to this channel and if you're
on youtube click the alert notification
here's a simple fact there's just too
much content on the web it's a lot of
content from google to pick for just
think of it this way there's over a
billion blogs with over a billion blogs
and roughly seven billion people that's
one blog for every seven people do you
really think we need more blogs and more
people creating content well if it's
unique sure but the problem is is most
people are just regurgitating the same
old information over and over again
for that reason
who's google gonna rank at the top
well if your content is really old what
you'll find is it won't get as much
traffic because what google wants to do
is they want to rank that fresh updated
content at the top or new content at the
top because it's more likely to be more
relevant have all the latest and
greatest updated facts for example if i
had an old article comparing all the
social media sites and i included
myspace and vine in it do you think it's
still relevant today of course not
because vine doesn't exist anymore and
myspace is pretty much dead heck i don't
even know if it's still up
but the point i'm trying to make is with
all the content out there
google is going to rank the content
that's doesn't just have the most links
or the best on-page seo more importantly
they're going to rank the content that
has the best user experience and usually
that means that's the content that is
fresh up to date and the most relevant
with one of my earlier websites
nutrition secret i no longer own it
i was able to build up literally over a
hundred thousand visitors a month
and the main strategy that i use wasn't
just cranking out new content it was
continually updating and expanding my
old articles to get them more and more
traffic
on the neilpatel.com website for every
blog article i write my team is updating
21 old pieces of content now i myself
wish i could also update 21 old articles
each and every single week i don't have
the time for that so i have a team of
three people that are literally updating
my older articles to make sure they're
more relevant to make sure they're not
giving any false information because
what worked a year ago or two years ago
was relevant a year or two ago may not
be relevant anymore and if you don't do
that
you'll notice that over time your old
content will start getting less and less
traffic now sure some of your old
content is evergreen for example if you
have a piece of content that talks about
how to install a toilet you don't really
need to update it much
but
that's not the case with all forms of
content
so how do you go and update your old
content and figure out which pieces to
update which ones not to update and heck
how do you know what parts to update and
how it works do you just add a sentence
do you add in paragraphs do you add in
more images videos well i'm going to
walk you through that right now step by
step
the first thing i want you to do is to
log into google search console when you
log into google search console
you'll see your traffic over the last 28
days it defaults to that i know there's
roughly 30 days in a month but it
defaults to 28 days
that's fine and when you log in you go
to your website i want you to click on
the pages link you'll see that right
it's already highlighted here
under or right next to queries the next
thing i want you to do is adjust your
date range so i know i said last 28 days
is fine and it is
but to see what old pieces of content
are gaining or losing traffic you got to
click on that date range where it says
last 28 days
and then click on compare
and select compare the last 28 days year
over year
this will show you something like this
where it shows your traffic over the
last 28 days versus the 28 days the year
before
and you're already on the pages section
of google search console
and i want you to sort by the last 28
days over the previous year and when you
do that it'll show you the articles that
were the most popular to least popular
in the previous year
now going through that list what you
want to do is look for the posts that
have lost traffic in other words the
number was bigger on the right hand side
than the left-hand side because the
left-hand side will show you how much
traffic that current article is getting
so if it's gone down that means you
should update it now with my website
because i update so much content add a
scroll to find it you may have to scroll
or go to the next page but if you're not
updating content as frequently you may
see some of these articles towards the
top so let's look at this one this one
that is getting less traffic than it did
a year ago it's called uh get started
using schema markup now that may not be
the exact name of the article but it's
around schema markup and that is the url
and it was getting a bit more than
9700 visitors a month and now it's
getting roughly 7 500 visitors a month
so i want you to click on the article
that was getting more traffic a year ago
and less traffic now when i clicked on
that article i can see that i was
getting more traffic
from terms like schema markup
terms like schema seo technically schema
seo i'm doing better now uh there's a
few others schema in seo schema code so
there's quite a few terms that i was
getting more traffic from so what you'll
want to do is start googling those terms
to see who's ranking above you
so let's google schema markup as you can
see there's an article by moz there's an
article by search engine journal then
there's schema.org and what you'll want
to do is click on each of those articles
and analyze them and say huh what did
they have that i don't what is making
their article better than mine and you
want to take that information for all
the sites that rank above you and then
you're going to want to modify your
content and you do this by
making yours better than there so if
they're doing a handful of things or
discussing a handful of things that are
relevant that you're not
add those into your article update
anything that's outdated to create a
better experience in your competition
you also want to delete anything that's
irrelevant if something doesn't make
sense anymore delete it like if i had an
article on social media and i was
talking about myspace i would delete it
because no one cares to hear about
myspace anymore but i may add in tiktok
because tiktok is really popular these
days when you update the article i want
you to also update the publish by date
so search engines knows updated and
don't just think about word count think
about user experience it's not about
adding 5 000 words extra or 500 words or
even 50 words do what's best for the
user that could mean you just need to
add images to describe what you're
trying to get through or it could be
that you just add a video or it could be
that you're just deleting sections you
need to do what's best for the user and
not obsess or worry about word count and
lastly i recommend that you don't change
your url if you want to change your url
that's fine but just 301 redirect the
old url to the new one and once you
update it go back into search console
type in your url in the search bar at
the top it'll start fetching the page
and then boom
request it for indexing and then you're
off into the races and within 30 days
you should start seeing an increase in
seo traffic to that page it literally is
that simple now if you need help
updating your old content you can check
out my ad agency neil patel digital or
go to mpdigital.com
or if you have any questions and you
want to do it yourself that's great as
well leave a comment below we'll answer
it i'll help you out and i'll try to do
my best to grow your seo traffic as well
if you enjoy this video like it share it
tell other people about it and again if
you have any questions just leave a
comment below and i'll answer and help
you out thank you for your time